Welcome!
We have many updates to share.
Of course, the world’s attention
has been fixed on events
in Russia and Ukraine.
As Jehovah’s people,
we are not surprised by such events.
We’re well aware that Russia and its allies
fill the role described in Daniel chapter 11
as “the king of the north.”
When the Governing Body
first made this identification
at the annual meeting in 2018,
we mentioned that the king of the north
had already taken possession of Crimea.
When reading Daniel chapter 11,
it’s not surprising
to see that the king of the north
is interested in other territories.
Certainly, this is the time
to keep on the watch continually
and to maintain our Christian neutrality!
As of February 28, we have no deaths,
but we have one reported injury
among our brothers in Ukraine.
Dozens of their homes have been damaged.
Thousands of our brothers
have fled areas of military conflict.
We’re keeping you dear brothers and sisters
in Ukraine and Russia in our prayers.
At the same time,
we’re doing everything possible
to be sure that you’ll have
the needed spiritual food
as well as the necessities of life.
With regard to legal matters,
during the week of February 21,
we had three significant court decisions.
On February 22, a court in Ust-Abakan
ruled to grant parole and release
to 70-year-old Valentina Baranovskaya.
Sister Baranovskaya has been in prison
for the past 12 months.
The prosecutor has until March 4 to appeal.
If there is no appeal,
then she could be released
as early as March 5.
Please keep dear Sister Baranovskaya
in your prayers.
On February 22, 2022,
the European Court of Human Rights
issued two significant judgments
concerning our brothers in Russia.
The cases involved
searches and police detention
affecting various brothers from 2010 to 2012.
The court ruled in our favor
and awarded damages
to the 15 brothers and sisters
who were involved in these cases.
In total, the government of Russia
will be required to pay nearly 100,000 euros.
The court noted that the public ministry
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
is a fundamental right
that “a public authority”
should not interfere with.
In many countries,
the number of COVID-19 cases is dropping.
Some governments are starting to relax
or eliminate various restrictions.
We hope that conditions
will allow us to resume
more of our theocratic activities in person.
Yet, we want to maintain
our cautious approach.
The Governing Body
has directed Branch Committees
to monitor the situation
in each part of their branch territory.
Each Branch Committee may initiate
or expand the pilot program
for in-person meetings
when it can be done safely.
Will it be possible
to hold an in-person Memorial
for your congregation this year?
Only time will tell.
In any case,
this may be a good time for all of us
to consider how we view
our congregation meetings.
If we can return to the Kingdom Hall,
will we be ready to do so?
Think about how we reason
with our Bible students
on the importance of attending meetings
in lesson 10
of the Enjoy Life Forever!  book.
There it says:
“Effort is required to attend meetings.
“Consider the example of Jesus’ family.
“To attend a yearly event, they had to walk
“some 60 miles (100 km)
“through mountainous terrain
from Nazareth to Jerusalem.”
Then the book asks this question:
“Why might you have to put forth effort
to attend meetings?”
No doubt that soul-searching question
has prompted some Bible students
to begin to attend meetings.
But maybe that’s a question
that we’ll all have to think about.
Going back to in-person meetings
will take some effort on our part.
But, of course,
we have to think about the blessings
that come from in-person association
with our brothers and sisters.
We can just imagine
how much Joseph and Mary and their children
enjoyed being in person in Jerusalem
when the city was filled
with fellow worshippers of Jehovah!
No doubt the joy from being there
helped Joseph and Mary realize
that it was truly worth the effort.
Likewise, our joy
in being at the Kingdom Hall
with our dear brothers and sisters
will far outweigh any initial inconvenience.
Until we can return to the Kingdom Hall,
we appreciate the fine effort
that you dear brothers and sisters make
to attend the meetings on Zoom.
By connecting early and staying after,
we have more opportunities
to do what’s mentioned
at Hebrews 10:24, 25:
“And let us consider one another
“so as to incite to love and fine works,
“not forsaking our meeting together,
“as some have the custom,
“but encouraging one another,
“and all the more so
as you see the day drawing near.”
We can experience the joy of giving
as we actively ‘encourage
our brothers and sisters,
inciting them to love and fine works.’
Of course,
why do we put forth all of this effort?
Why do we work so hard
to maintain our own spirituality
and encourage others?
Because we want to keep our relationship
with Jehovah strong and at the same time
take our stand against
our great adversary, Satan the Devil.
Remember the warning recorded at 1 Peter 5:8.
There we read:
“Keep your senses, be watchful!
“Your adversary, the Devil,
“walks about like a roaring lion,
seeking to devour someone.”
While the Devil
doesn’t cause all our problems,
he’s always looking for a way to use them.
He would love to use the stress
and isolation of the pandemic
to weaken our faith
or to sidetrack us with his propaganda.
What can help us?
Note what’s stated in verse 9:
“But take your stand against him,
“firm in the faith,
“knowing that the same kind of sufferings
“are being experienced
“by the entire association
of your brothers in the world.”
Simply put,
all of Jehovah’s people
are facing the same attack!
Although our challenges may be different,
no matter where we live on this earth,
we are under attack.
But when we meditate
on what our brothers and sisters
in other places are dealing with,
it can help us
to see our challenges differently.
For example,
think about our brothers and sisters
facing natural disasters and persecution.
So far this service year,
our brothers have been affected
by over 120 disasters.
Consider a few examples.
In December,
Typhoon Rai (locally known as Odette)
devastated the Philippines.
Sadly, four publishers died,
a dozen were injured,
and over 2,000 were displaced.
And can you imagine?
Over 1,700 of our brothers’ homes
were damaged or destroyed!
Then, in January,
Tropical Storm Ana struck
southeastern Africa.
Sadly, one brother lost his wife
and two children.
Three brothers and a child were injured,
over 2,000 were displaced,
and over 400 of our brothers’ homes
were damaged or destroyed.
And on February 15,
heavy rainstorms and mudslides hit Brazil.
Unfortunately, one of our brothers
and his two-year-old son
were swept away by a mudslide.
The father survived despite serious injuries.
But tragically, his son died.
Sadly, another brother also died.
We continue to pray for all
who have lost loved ones
or who have been affected
by these recent disasters.
In addition to natural disasters,
our brothers also face civil unrest.
In the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
many of our brothers and sisters
in several regions
have had to flee their villages and fields.
Yet, with Jehovah’s help,
we’ve been able to provide
over 81 tons of food
to assist more than 19,600 people!
We deeply appreciate your support
of our brothers and sisters
who are facing disasters.
Your prayers and generous donations
are having a tremendous impact.
Thank you!
Despite all these disasters,
our brothers and sisters
remain firm in the faith.
Let’s hear how some
in Congo, the Philippines,
and the Caribbean
feel about the help they’ve received.
I sincerely thank Jehovah
for the material support to help me
return to my normal life.
For me, thank you is not enough
to express my appreciation
for all the good things that we’ve received,
since I was among
those who were helped to have
damaged houses repaired.
The brothers really helped us.
Despite the difficulties
brought on by Typhoon Odette,
Jehovah did not abandon us.
He helped us.
On the very next day,
the brothers contacted us
and provided us food
and helped us repair our house.
We’re so thankful for Jehovah’s help
and for providing us our needs
so that we can continue with our lives!
I sincerely thank Jehovah
and his organization for the love
they have shown us during this time
that we became victims
of the volcanic eruption.
We don’t know what words
to use to express our gratitude.
It’s like Jehovah is taking us by his hand,
caring for us, and saying: “Do not be afraid.
I will help you.”
Honestly, we are very thankful.
Thank you so much for getting us this house,
because our house burned down.
And to you servants of Jehovah,
I want to tell you
thank you, thank you, thank you.
When I left,
I left with the clothes on my back.
The condition that we left our home in—
And coming back and seeing the work
that the brothers did for us,
I don’t know how
to put it into words.
I love and appreciate
every single one of you
and what you have done for us.
You will never understand just how much
it means to know that we don’t
have to do this by ourselves.
I’m very, very thankful
to see Jehovah’s blessing.
Another challenge our brothers and sisters
are facing is persecution.
Take, for example, Sister Anna Safronova.
On January 25,
56-year-old Anna
was sentenced to six years in a penal colony.
This is the harshest, longest sentence
imposed on a sister in Russia
since the 2017 ban.
The court imprisoned Anna
even though she was
the caregiver for her 81-year-old mother.
What challenges do the family members
of those imprisoned face?
How is Jehovah helping them?
Let’s watch the following
interviews from Russia.
Our trials and hardships
began on June 12, 2018,
when authorities searched our home.
And then we didn’t see Aleksey for 11 months
because he was
in the pretrial detention center.
The judge sentenced
him to three and a half years
in a general regime prison colony.
Then another terrible thing happened.
It was the fire when our home burned
to the ground in the middle of the night.
In October 2020,
the children and I got COVID.
And just recently,
we came down with COVID for a second time.
I live with my daughter, Anna.
In July 2021,
our home was searched,
and on January 25, 2022,
a court sentenced her to six years in prison.
We were not even allowed
to say goodbye to each other.
My dad has been in a prison
for a year and a half already.
In January of this year, he was sentenced
to seven years in a correctional facility.
Along with all of that,
at the end of last year,
my mother died unexpectedly from COVID.
One trial is difficult enough,
but when you get two at the same time—
So the two people
who are dearest to me are no longer with me.
I pray to Jehovah
and feel that he gives
me peace of heart and a sense of calm.
And I don’t worry quite as much.
Friends come over
and help me with the cleaning,
and they go shopping for me, and we chat.
In all of that, I see Jehovah’s hand
—his help and his support.
Jehovah constantly strengthened us
by means of his Word.
And he used the brothers.
For example, our friends
sent us text messages,
quoting the very scriptures
that gave me strength.
These were answers to my prayers.
It was my parent’s wedding anniversary,
and all day it was, like—
Couriers were bringing us gifts,
flowers, and parcels.
It was, like—
The whole day the house was full of flowers.
It was as though Jehovah
were shouting to us: “I love you.
I’m right with you.
I won’t leave you!”
And Sasha said,
“Mum, if Dad had been free,
we would have had only
one bouquet of flowers at the most!”
Do you remember that time
when you were afraid to shout out:
“Dad!
I love you!
Hang in there.
Jehovah loves you!”?
You mustered up courage,
and we prayed as well.
And then he wrote in letters that he cried
because he was so happy that he had heard me.
My faith has only been made stronger.
I’ve started reading the Bible every day.
Also, I’ve taken a big step
toward Jehovah—even two.
I dedicated my life to him and was baptized.
Many times I remembered
the thought that Jehovah
often embraces us using someone else’s arms.
Well, in these last years,
we have felt Jehovah’s embrace many times.
Jehovah always turns
hardships into blessings.
There was the fire, and we lost our home.
But now we have a new home,
which is better than the previous one.
I am certain that whatever happens,
we will definitely get through it.
The main thing is to be close to Jehovah.
We are so proud
of all those
who are standing firm in the faith
despite persecution.
We’re reminded of 2 Corinthians 4:9:
“We are persecuted, but not abandoned;
we are knocked down, but not destroyed.”
Jehovah will never
abandon his faithful servants.
As we’ve been reminded in this update,
our brothers and sisters worldwide
continue to “stand firm in the faith”
despite military actions, a global pandemic,
disasters, and persecution.
Brothers and sisters,
as 1 Peter 5:8 says:
“Keep your senses, be watchful!”
Our adversary, Satan the Devil,
has filled this world
with his satanic propaganda.
Be cautious!
“Take your stand against him.”
As the world becomes
more and more nationalistic and divided,
we will not compromise our neutrality.
We will remain united
in our loyalty to God’s Kingdom
and in our love for one another.
Continue to listen to the voice
of our Fine Shepherd, Jesus Christ,
and his appointed channel,
“the faithful and discreet slave.”
Our almighty God, Jehovah, is with us!
And we have our
worldwide brotherhood to support us.
No matter what trials lay ahead,
we have everything we need
to remain faithful to Jehovah.
Dear brothers and sisters,
we love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.